---
title: '“Without the assumption of the existence of uniformities there can be no knowledge?” '
date: 2021-04-30
permalink: /posts/2018/01/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Philosophy
---

# “Without the assumption of the existence of uniformities there can be no knowledge?”

To discuss this issue we must understand the statement more clearly. Uniformities means same natural laws and processes that operate in the universe now have continuously operated in the universe in the past and apply everywhere. The area of knowledge of natural science and ethic are two area of knowledge which are suitable to illustrate the importance and function of the uniformities for these two areas of knowledge.

## Natural Science

In term of the area of knowledge ----natural science, scientist always try their best to find the “secret of the world”, in other word they are trying to find the rules of the universe. In this view, the knowledge which is produce by them always could apply to everywhere in this universe and the purpose of science is to find universal theory. Therefore, the assumption of uniformities plays a very significant role in area of knowledge. Thus, a new question aroused-----“Could the knowledge of science be possible without the assumption of uniformities.” Trace back to the 17th century, in this period, the experimental science was established after the period of renaissance which was contending. Since 17th century, the methodology which played a very significant role in the history of science of experimental science was established by Francis Bacon, he is the first people who raised the methods of deductive. For the theory which was established by Francis Bacon, the statements which are established by induction are not valid, for example if someone claims that “all swans are white” after he saw thousands of swans are white. The claim is not strong enough because everyone could overturn the claim by a single black swam. For science which pursue correct knowledge, the statements which is established by the induction of phenomenon is not valid. Therefore, he built up a new knowledge system of natural science for strengthening the foundation of science and suiting the purpose of science, that is hypothesis-deduction method. The process of method is to make universal hypothesis first, then use logic approach to work out some statement which is falsifiable. The contribution of Francis Bacon was significant, he made the knowledge structure of science rigorous and excluded the potential threat of the natural science. Back to the question, if there is no existence of assumption of uniformities be the one of premise of the structure of natural science, there is no universal statements. Because it is not sure that the statement could apply to everywhere in this universe. And the method of science will no longer be valid. Therefore, if there is no assumption of uniformities, there will no knowledge of science.

On the other side, some people may claim that discover something under specific circumstances is science. They think if there is no assumption of uniformities, there will still have the knowledge of science. Some of them may ask “Is ‘the water have the maximum density when the temperature is 4℃’ scientific knowledge?” and so on. Science is a kind of experimental subject, it means science investigate the real world. The only role of experience in the structure of science is to falsify the hypothesizes which were made by scientist. Experiences could not be the knowledge of science. Because the method of induction is not valid for formulating a statement, and if we apply some empirical knowledge to assumptions of science, it will cause some logic issue. The statement “the water have the maximum density when the temperature is 4℃” is an experiential statement, because it could be observed and verified directly, and do not need the method of deduction. Thus, it could not apply to the hypothesis, it is not a science knowledge. In the real world, the science knowledge about the statement is knowledge about chemical bond. 

The assumption of uniformities which is indispensable of the structure of natural science. But we still cannot prove this assumption is valid. Therefore, there is a potential threat of the structure of science. Scientist should be aware of this threat and try to prevent such three disaster of mathematics.

# Ethic

In term of the area of knowledge of ethic, the debate between absolutism and relativism continued a long time since ancient Greece. Some of relativist like to prove their opinion and falsify moral absolutism, for example “in the middle ages, European hated witch and perceived witches as evil and immoral thing. Thus, Europeans execute all the women who are deemed to be witches by fire. But people do not execute absolutism today, it proves that absolutism is not true and the standard of moral is changing.” This example has an undeniable error, it mixed up the categorical imperative and hypothetical imperative. Thus, this example cannot prove absolutism is not valid. On the contrary, absolutism is able to explain this example. In this example, the unchanged moral criterion is “murder is incorrect”. In middle ages, people thought that witches threat their safety and kill other people by curse. Therefore, people execute witches by fire. But people no longer perceive witches as murders at present. It is a general mistake that made by relativists. There is another example which show the mistake of relativists “some of relativists use the different view of people on the issue of abortion to falsify absolutism.” This example also mixed up the categorical imperative and hypothetical imperative. The debate about abortion is derive from the different view of people of life. Some people think the embryo is human, but others disagree with it. The absolute moral standard referred to this example is also “murder is incorrect.” 

On the other side, in the view of absolutism, it is need to prove that absolute moral rules could be possible at first. In the view of modern philosophy, the moral rules could be considered as a synthetic a priori proposition which is independent from experience and the meaning of predicate term do not include in the meaning of subject term. It means that the a synthetic a priori proposition could not prove by logic. And it need to add a new thing, in other word “the third thing”, to prove it is a synthetic a priori proposition because it independent from experience. If it is knowledge of mathematic which are a priori propositions “the third thing” is a priori forms of intuition. Unfortunately, moral rules are independent of the cognitive ability of human. Thus, a priori forms of intuition could not be “the third thing” of moral rules. Kant found “the third thing” of moral rules is freedom and prove that it is self-consistent. Therefore, in the view of absolutism, the assumption of uniformities is the foundation of moral. If there are no uniformities, there is no moral knowledge. Because of it, human is the starting point of moral. Thus, Kant claimed that human is the end of moral, human should not be the tools. I will use absolutism to illustrate some moral puzzle to show that absolutism is reasonable and self-consistent. For example, the Trolley Problem. In the most well-known version of Trolley Problem, one side of the railway have 1 people, and the others side have 5 people, which side will you chose? In this condition, there is no choices violate the rules of moral. Because there is no people have been considered as a tool. The sacrifice of one man is not the essential condition of the life of five people and vice versa. And that is why the first version of Trolley Problem arouse a lot of discussion and this question is perceived as a moral dilemma. This example uncovers a characteristic of absolutism----in some conditions, there is no moral choice or non-moral choice. In the second most well-known version of Trolley Problem, there is a bridge and a fat human stand with you on the bridge. Five people on the railway, under the bridge. If you want to save those five people you have to push the fat man and he will stop the train. Under this condition, it is easy to work out the answer of this puzzle via absolutism. The fat man is the essential condition of the live of other five people, at that time the fat people is perceived as a tool to save other five people. Therefore, it is not moral to push the fat man. And for the Trolley Problem experts created many other versions. And people always hold opposite opinions, but some people may think that “It is right via the intuition, but I still feel something is incorrect subconsciously.” That is one of the reason some people usually use this example to support relativism. But there is a question, why we always trying to create theories to suit our intuition? Intuition is related to the gene of humankind. It could only show that which choice suit our structure of gene. It could not show which choice is correct or moral. However, absolutism provide the answer of this.

In the light of above, the moral relativism has not a strong foundation of philosophy, but the absolutism has this foundation. Even though there are many discussions about these two opinions, absolutism is the best theory of moral at present. On this point, the assumption of uniformities is the essential condition of the existence of the knowledge of moral.

The assumption of the existence of uniformities plays a significant role in these two areas of knowledge. If there is no assumption of existence of uniformities, there is no knowledge in these two areas of knowledge.
