---
title: 'The Moral Crisis of the Modern State'
date: 2018-08-25
permalink: /posts/2018/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Philosophy
---
Nowadays, liberalism has taken a dominant position in politics. Its dogma is the famous saying of the British historian Lord Acton: "Power leads to corruption, and absolute power leads absolutely to corruption." The state is recognized as a "necessary evil" and is considered necessary to protect the individual's life, liberty, and security and maintain the basic order of society. But in any case, a "necessary evil" is still an "evil."  As long as the state represents power, it is always a moral "evil" for liberalism.

Liberalism's moral critique of the state derives from the binary distinction between the state and civil society or the public and private spheres. To avoid political and social conflicts between people, Liberalism "demoralizes" the state. Specifically, liberalism classifies all religious beliefs and moral choices into the private sphere, and separates this private sphere from the state as the public sphere. Accordingly, as public power, the state must remain morally neutral, i.e., the state is concerned only with human life, liberty, and security, protecting fundamental human freedoms and rights, but cannot interfere with human religious beliefs and moral choices. But once the state is "demoralized," the state inevitably becomes a pure power, even a "naked machine of violence" ("Leviathan"). For the individual, this great power of the state does not mean the protection of individual liberty but rather a permanent threat and violation of it. The state itself, which thus maintains its moral neutrality, thus loses its moral legitimacy and cannot defend itself morally.

The paradox of liberalism is that it requires that the state protect the freedom of religious belief and moral choice of each individual to the greatest extent possible. For this purpose, it must be endowed with strong powers. On the other hand, it denies the moral legitimacy of the state as a public power based on the importance of individual freedom. It even criticizes the state as a moral "evil." The question is, if the state loses its moral legitimacy, what reason does the state have to demand the obedience of individuals? If there is no individual obedience, how can the state protect individual freedom? Liberalism is caught in a dilemma in its opinions to the state.

## The Historically Origin

Historically, the binary distinction between the public and private spheres and the idea of the state as a "necessary evil," was never present in ancient Greece and Rome. It originated from the Christian response to its internal dilemma (buy Theological Origins of Modernity if you are interested, it has become the consensus of the historiography).

In the pre-Christian era (ancient Greece and Rome), political philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle considered the "city-state" in their contexts as an existence above the individual. They regarded it as the ultimate purpose of the individual. In the Ideal State, Plato compares the "city-state" to the "capital man" and considers the "city-state" as a whole to be higher than the individual. In "Politics," Aristotle argues that individuals can develop virtue and humanity and become actual human beings, only by being citizens in a "city-state.

However, the affirmation of the state in ancient political philosophy was challenged in Christianity. Specifically, Christianity's apolitical and anti-political nature is reflected in its dualistic doctrine. Just as its doctrines of "God" and "Caesar" (Matt. 22), "the other side" and "the side" (Rom. 22), and Augustine's subsequent binary distinction between the "city of God" and the "city of the secular," which presupposes the absolute priority of the former over the latter. On the one hand, Christianity fundamentally rejects and denies the status of secular politics, relegating it to a fallen world and giving its true glory to the "other side" of the spiritual world (the paradigm shift in science and technology could be involved here, but I won't go into that). On the other hand, Christianity sees itself as having the mission of saving secular politics, and therefore must guide and control it. In this way, Christianity displays a very paradoxical attitude toward secular politics, i.e., it denies and rejects secular politics but at the same time seeks to interfere with and control it.

The church reduces secular political power to a "temporal power" while seeing itself as a "spiritual power" and at the same time believes that any "temporal power" should be ruled and guided by "spiritual power." Thus, in contrast to this dualistic doctrine, the Christian Church, as a special kind of polity, also exhibits a unique dualistic. On the one hand, the church claims the supremacy of "spiritual power" over "temporal power" and rejects and denies the latter, thus refusing to see itself as a secular polity. On the other hand, as God's agent in the secular world, the church should interfere with the secular state.

This paradoxical attitude of Christianity toward secular politics led to chaos and disorder in Western political science for more than a thousand years in the Middle Ages. The conflict between the "divine right" represented by the church and the secular power represented by the state led to a juridical conflict that made it impossible for the Christian state to have any good polity at all, i.e., as Rousseau mentioned in the Social Contract, "people did not know which of them to obey between the king and the priest."

## Origin of Mordern State

Rousseau's view represents the basic consensus of almost all early political scientists since Machiavelli, which was the fundamental motive of the modern political revolution (Strauss's "first wave of modernization"). When Machiavelli, one of the founders of contemporary political philosophy, launched the modern political-philosophical revolution, he pointed his finger first at Christianity. In almost all his writings, he spared no effort to criticize the corruption of Christianity for secular politics. To dissolve the conflict between religion and secular politics, Machiavelli first "de-religiousized" politics and then further "secularized" religion (I won't go into the details here, there are too many, so go to the book yourself if you are interested). In Machiavelli's context, politics is no longer subject to any supra-political religion but autonomy and independence. Religion is no longer a spiritual force above secular politics but becomes a purely desire for power and thus wholly subordinate to politics.

Based on Machiavelli, philosophers such as Hobbes and Spinoza further took his modern revolution in political philosophy. Similarly to Machiavelli, they all begin by referring religion and politics back to a pre-religious and pre-political "state of nature" (the meaning of this term is very different in each person's context; look up the book for yourself if you are interested). To overcome the shortcomings and deficiencies of the "state of nature" and to preserve the "natural rights" of human beings (in fact, this point has an intense origin with the "natural law," which is not relevant to this topic so that I won't go into it), people agreed among themselves that they would be able to overcome the shortcomings and deficiencies of the "state of nature." To preserve the "natural rights" of man (which has an intense origin in "natural law" and is not relevant to this question, so I will not discuss it), people make a contract with each other to give up or cede some of their "natural rights" to a third party, the state. Accordingly, the sole and fundamental purpose of the state at this point is to protect the "property" of individuals in the Lockean context. Based on this presupposition of nature and natural rights, this group of political philosophers carried out a wholesale critique and reinterpretation of the Christian doctrine. For them, Christian spirituality was no longer a supernatural and supra-rational revelation. Still, imagination or superstition below reason, and accordingly, the Christian Church ceased to be a spiritual right beyond secular politics but merely a community subordinate to the state.

The "de-religionization" of politics and the "secularization" of religion since Machiavelli. The early political philosophers established the principle of "separation of church and state" advocated by later liberalism. The church must not interfere with secular politics, and secular politics must not interfere with the freedom of religious belief of individuals. On this basis, liberalism further universalized the principle of "separation of church and state" into a fundamental principle of separation between the state and civil society or between the public and private spheres.

The principle of "separation of church and state" laid down by the early modern political philosophers eliminated the external conflict between religion and politics but did not eliminate the conflict itself but internalized it as a conflict between the individual and the state in the political world. The "de-religionization" of politics does mean that politics is free from religious control and that politics or the state itself has lost its sanctity for the individual. It means that the modern state no longer implies the ultimate and noble purpose of the individual, as in the classical Greek city-state, but is reduced to a mere artificial contractual creation, or what Hobbes called "artificial man. In the modern state, the purpose of the state is not to cultivate virtue and achieve human perfection, but only to guard the "property" of the individual in the Lockean context. All that is essential to life regarding virtue is relegated to the private sphere and becomes personal freedom and power that has nothing to do with the state.

## Dilemma

Once the state loses its sanctity and becomes a naked power, the moral legitimacy of the state becomes a significant issue. In the modern state, the state becomes a means to preserve individual freedom, while individual freedom becomes the ultimate end. In this state, the individual has absolute moral priority compared to the state. In the early political philosophers, the reason for the individual's subordination to the state was the individual's rational calculation of interests and his fear of the state. In the former case, the individual rationally recognizes that obedience to the state brings peace and security and is in their interest. In the latter case, if the individual does not obey the state, the individual will be punished accordingly. However, one also realizes that neither rational calculation nor fear is sufficient to make a person submit to the state wholeheartedly, because in the modern state, no matter how rationally clear the individual is of the necessity of the state for him, he cannot emotionally accept the state as a mere power. The identification with the state is reflected in external obedience and internal emotions. With this in mind, these philosophers, while criticizing Christ, somehow reaffirmed the significance of religion for the state. They attempted to establish religion within the political world, hoping to eliminate potential antagonisms and conflicts between the individual and the state, between the private and the public spheres (too much to go into, read the book yourself). In other words, early modern political philosophers had a very complex and dilemmatic attitude toward religion, fearing both that people's piety would affect their obedience to the state and that the state would lose its ethical ties with the individual.

In short, in the absence of religion in the modern state, the moral legitimacy of the state as an apparatus of pure power became a severe problem. The strict distinction between the public and private spheres under liberalism led to the private nature of religion and moral norms, making it impossible for political philosophers to reinvent new forms of religion and moral norms and thus to provide any defense of the moral legitimacy of the modern state.
