---
title: 'Gyges--A Fable from "History"'
date: 2019-05-06
permalink: /posts/2019/05/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - Philosophy
---

In the opening section of Herodotus' work "History," Herodotus traces the Hippocratic War, the main thread of the book, to a number of geopolitical and military conflicts between the peoples of the Near East. Later on, these conflicts are further extended to the conflict of values as well as traditions between the Near Eastern peoples and the Western peoples. In this comparison, Lydia, the first state Herodotus discusses in detail, is of inescapable importance as the prototype and "model" of the Eastern despotic state. According to Herodotus, although the Phoenicians in the Near East and the Greeks in the West (the Greeks who lived in Argos) had been robbing each other of women and territory since ancient times. But strictly speaking, it was the invasion and enslavement of the Greek city-states in Ionia by the Lydian king Chrysos that really inaugurated the Hippocratic War. According to Herodotus, the reason for the ultimate defeat and death of Chrysos was the unjust usurpation of his ancestor Gyges from the throne of the then king of Lydia, Candaules.

## Gyges

The history of Gyges' usurpation is not complicated in the book "History". King Candaules of Lydia was very fond of his wife, but according to the traditions of the Near Eastern countries, the queen could only stay in the palace, and her real appearance could not be shown to the public, especially her body could not be seen by other men. Therefore, others only heard about the queen's beauty, but no one really saw it. This made it impossible to confirm King Candaules' boasts about his wife. Candaules then ordered his most trusted retainer, Jurgis, to hide in the queen's chambers at night and see her naked. At first, Jurgis refused to do so, but when Candoles insisted, he had no choice but to comply. However, Jurgis was discovered by the queen when he slipped out of the queen's bed-chamber. The next day, the queen summons Jurgis and forces him to make a choice: he will be killed, or he can kill the king and marry the queen. Jurgis finally chose the latter, and with the help of the queen, he not only killed King Candaules, but also married the queen and became the new king of Lydia.

Although there are various interpretations of the story of the usurpation of the throne by Ghengis, it is doubtful whether it even happened in history. Herodotus himself, however, did not intend to prove the historical veracity of the story but rather to describe what he believed to be the real source of the Hippocratic War. By doing so, he reveals to us the irreconcilable contradiction of the political traditions between Greece and the Near East: among the Eastern nations and peoples, represented by Lydia, the political power to rule was, like the body of a woman, itself hidden. It must therefore be concealed and must not become open and visible, or it will surely be lost. Contrary to Candaules, Diocles, the first king of the Medes, understood this very well. He succeeded not only in being crowned king but also in gaining a firm grip on political power through concealment. After he became king, he built an extremely complex palace in the center of which he himself was surrounded by seven layers of walls. It was in this way that Diocese maintained his mystique with his subjects and ruled Medea firmly for fifty-three years. At the same time, after the Persians replaced the Medes and Lydians as the hegemon of the East, the Persian monarchs also took the secrecy and non-public nature of their political ruling power to the extreme. Herodotus mentions that the Persians, like the Medes, believed that the political order of rule had a direct correspondence with the proximity of space. The Persians not only considered themselves the best people, but they believed that their kings resided at the center of the invisible universe and ruled the whole world from a distance.

The political rule of the Greeks in the book of History, on the other hand, embodies a completely different principle from that of the Persian and other Eastern nations and the principle of openness. This principle of openness was exemplified by Sparta (and to a certain extent also by Athens after the introduction of democracy). The Spartans' principle of political openness was reflected in their unconditional obedience to the law. In his book, Herodotus describes the virtue and openness of Spartan politics from the mouth of Demaratos, who had been deposed as king of Sparta and exiled to Persia. When the Persian king asked Demaratos whether the Greeks had the will and were strong enough to resist the Persian army, Demaratos replied, "The Greeks, and especially the Spartans, obey the rule of law, not the will of the monarch, and precisely because Sparta resisted the Persians by the command of the law, they must resist to the end, even if they die in battle. "In the mind of Demaratos, as well as Herodotus himself, the Spartans' emphasis on rule based on the law was clearly superior. For rule-based on law implies that political rule itself is visible and public. That is, both the creation of political ruling power and its specific exercise and succession are under the scrutiny and supervision of the public eye. For Herodotus, the defeat of the Persians and the triumph of the Greeks are the best proof of the superiority of the visibility or publicity of political power over its non-publicity.

# Plato's Version

In Plato's case, the second book of the Ideal State opens with a similarly legendary tale of regicide and usurpation by Glaucon, a Lydian. The ancestor of Jurgis was given a gold ring by chance while shepherding sheep. When he turned the front of the ring to face himself, no one could see him, but when he turned the front of the ring outward, he would be visible. After he discovered the magic of this ring, he managed to become the king's messenger and seduced the queen, and finally collaborated with her to kill the king and usurp the throne. Leaving aside the differences between these two versions of the story, the theme of both stories, in Herodotus and Plato, seems to be the visibility and publicity of political rights (the ancestor of Gergis usurped political rights by making the visible ones invisible).

This is despite the fact that Glaucon sees the extreme archetype of the unjust as a tyrant, rather than equating it directly with an Eastern monarch, as Herodotus does. But there is a very obvious similarity and even commonality between the tyrant and the Eastern despot, namely that they both acquire and exercise political power in an invisible way. Returning to the text of the Ideal State, the reason why Glaucon introduces the story of the ancestor of Jurgis who relied on a magic ring to commit regicide and usurp the throne is, of course, to respond to two questions related to justice: first, what is justice? Second, is justice better than injustice? For Glaucon, both questions are clearly related to the visibility or public ability of political power. In short, Glaucon's view is that justice implies that political ruling power is fully public and visible, while injustice implies that political ruling power is hidden and invisible. In the story he tells, it is the magic of the ring that makes his ancestors' usurpation of political power invisible and thus conceals their injustice. According to later additions by Glaucon and Admantus, extreme injustice not only makes injustice itself invisible but even masquerades as justice. If you have the ability to read with basic comprehension, you will find that Glaucon's real intention is not to emphasize the essential and absolute distinction between justice and injustice. On the contrary, he actually denies the essential distinction between the two altogether. It is as the story of the usurpation of Ghengis suggests. Anyone, even a righteous person, will choose injustice as long as he wears that magical ring that makes him perform injustice without being visible. In Glaucon's mouth, justice is merely a compromise, an illusion based on a contract, rather than a real existence and choice in accordance with the natural nature of man. If political power is fundamentally invisible and undisclosed, then justice is clearly an illusion and an illusion. Conversely, if Socrates wants to defend justice, then he must demonstrate that political power not only should but can be visible and public.

## The Philosopher King

In the Ideal State, Socrates' defense of justice ultimately relies on philosophy. According to Socrates, the realization of a just city-state depends, first, on man's ability to truly know the whole world, including man and the city-state, and, second, on the ability of the man with absolute knowledge or wisdom (the philosopher) to rule the city-state. The definition of justice for Socrates is "every man does what is in accordance with his own nature." Then the nature of man (body and soul) is clearly knowable in principle, though not for everyone. But if man's nature is knowable, then the world itself must also be knowable. In Socrates' philosophy, the realm of the knowable or visible is the true existence, while the realm of the unknowable or invisible is opinion and illusion. Like Glaucon, Socrates uses parables and stories to discuss philosophical issues related to justice. This is Socrates' famous "cave" metaphor, which is also based on the premise of the distinction between the visible and the invisible. In the famous metaphor (interpreted in relation to political science), Socrates sees the real city-state or political world as a dark and invisible world of falsehood and considers the world outside the cave as a real visible world. Only the philosopher who brings the truth or wisdom as the visible into the city-state and becomes the ruler of the city-state can dispel all the darkness and invisible shadows in the city-state—turning the city-state from a cave of injustice into a city-state of justice.

Motivation-wise, the philosopher-king in Socrates' mind is very similar to the Candaules of Herodotus. In a righteous city-state envisioned by Socrates and ruled by philosophers, everything becomes visible and open, and everyone's body, soul, and life-world are bathed in the light of truth. Not only does the nature of each person become known and visible, but the work they are capable of doing in the city-state also becomes readily apparent. The invisible private sphere of personal property, marriage, and family of each person, including philosophers, disappeared and belonged to a public city-state world. In this visible and public city-state world, there is no conflict over material wealth, reputation, or power. All shadows and darkness are dispelled, and all sin and injustice disappear. It is logical that this just city-state ruled by philosophers is the most virtuous city-state in Socrates' mind.

However, Socrates' righteous city-state contains an obvious difficulty. However, the city-state itself and everyone in it are completely visible or knowable to the philosopher as ruler. But this is not the case for others outside the philosopher. Due to the limitations of the soul's ability, the majority of people cannot see the true "light" and truth or the "idea of good." In other words, they can only see the idea of things or the shadow of the "light," but not the idea or the light itself. Therefore, in his dialogues, Socrates can only describe the "idea of the good" with metaphors like the sun, the line, and the cave. Not only that, but the majority of people cannot even really see the philosopher as ruler. Although the philosopher and the tyrant constitute the two extremes of justice and injustice, respectively, these two extremes are connected in precisely one respect. That is, both the tyrant and the philosopher are invisible to the vast majority of people. The tyrant is invisible because he is hidden in the darkness, while the philosopher-king is invisible because he is in the light. It follows that political rule and political power itself cannot be fully visible and open, either in a just city-state ruled by a philosopher or in an unjust city-state ruled by a tyrant.

In his Politics, Aristotle criticized Plato for abolishing everything that was private in the city-state, such as property, marriage, and family, but the result was to abolish the essential diversity of the city-state itself. It caused the city-state to revert to a sort of familial being, which inevitably led to the demise of the city-state itself. Whether Aristotle's criticism was based on his misreading of Plato or not, he did see the essence of the Platonic, just city-state very keenly. In fact, the Platonic righteous city-state is very similar to an Eastern despotism, where the philosopher-king is in the light. But the others in the city-state could not really see him, but only his external image or shadow. For the majority of people, the philosopher and his rule over the city-state itself remained mysterious, invisible, and awe-inspiring.

## Modern Disscussion

Since entering the modern world, Plato's idea of a just city-state and his philosophy itself has, not surprisingly, come under more intense criticism. Plato's modern critics have been more vocal than Aristotle ever was. They criticize that Plato's just city-state and conceptual kingdom do not correspond to the true state of human nature but are pure imagination. They (the most prominent of whom are the American liberals) further charge that Plato's just city-state is irrational authoritarian patriarchy and that Plato's philosopher-king is nothing more than an Eastern despot. Not only that, but they even compared Plato's just city-state to the Christian kingdom of God. Instead of being a kingdom of light, it was considered a "kingdom of darkness" full of superstition and imagination.

Modern thinkers are trying to launch a complete and true intellectual enlightenment and revolution, dispelling all "kingdoms of darkness," including Plato's just city-state, with the natural light of reason. All that is invisible becomes visible, and all that is not public becomes public. In their imagination, once people truly know themselves and the world, they can make a contract and establish a state through reason. In the state established by virtue of a rational contract, both the formation of political power and its concrete use is under the scrutiny and supervision of the rational eye. Nothing is invisible and undisclosed. Any state that does not conform to the spirit of rational visibility and disclosure is a foolish and backward "Eastern despotism. Thus, however many modern thinkers such as Montesquieu, Kant, Hegel, Marx, and Weber may disagree on other points, there is a striking consensus on the critique of the so-called Oriental despotism.

But did modern thinkers dispel all unseen kingdoms of darkness through rational enlightenment? The answer is obviously not self-evident. The fundamental reason is that reason, as affirmed by modern thinkers, is only a human instrument of knowledge and artificial light of the mind and not a true light of the world. For modern thinkers, the reason is not so much the discovery and knowledge of a real-world as it is the creation of a human world. As Kant said, the reason is not so much the discovery of nature as the legislation of nature ("man legislates for nature"), rather than nature legislating for man. Weber's modern state, as a typical man-made object, is indeed enveloped in the light of reason and is therefore visible and public. But this light of reason itself is precisely artificial. On the contrary, the light that is the original is either unknowable or does not exist at all.

By recounting the Hippocratic War, Herodotus succeeds in shaping the Persian political tradition as the antithesis of Greece. The Persians viewed political power as invisible and undisclosed, to be lost once it was made public. The Greeks, on the other hand, were convinced that political power was all supposed to be public and that once it became hidden and invisible, it would inevitably lead to some kind of corruption and injustice. For Greece, and for the Western world in a broad sense, the Gigis was always an unbearable shadow in the political world. But the Near Eastern peoples, represented by Lydia and Persia, seemed to have seen clearly long ago that behind every Candaureus, there was inevitably hidden a Gigantis. But they not only saw this fact but also seemed to accept the fact itself quite naturally (sigh~).
